What is Devops ?
Devops combines the development and operation to increase the speed , 
efficiency , speed and security of software development . Devops is the combination of 
software development and operation .


Four Main principle of Devops 

1. Automation of Software Development lifecycle 
This includes Automation testing , Builds , Releases and Provisioning [setting up] of Development 
Environment and Manual task that can slow down or introduce human error into software development 
process 

2. Collaboration and Communication
A great Devops team have effective Collaboration and Communication 


3. Continuous imporovement and minimization waste - 
From automating Repetitive task to watching performance metrics of way to reduce 
release time and continuous improvement 


Devops LifeCycle 

1. Plan
Planning the work that need to be done , prioritize it 
and track its completion


2. Create
Write ,Design , Develop and securely manage code and project Data with
your team


3. Verify
Ensure that the code works Correctly and adheres to your quality 
standard - ideally with automated testing

4. Package 
Package your application and dependencies , manage containers and build artifacts


5. Secure 
Check for the vulnerablilities  through static and Dynamic tests , Fuzz testing 
and dependency scanning


6. Release
Deploy the software to end user 

7. Configure
Manage and configure the infrastructure required to support your application 

8. Monitor 
Track performance metrics and error to help reduce the  serverity and frequency of incidents 

9. Govern 
Manage Security vulnerablilities , policies and  Compilance across your organization 


Tools

1.Version Control system 
-> The fundamental practice of managing every change made to the source code and othe files 

2. Agile 
Agile Developement means taking iterative , incremental and lean approaches to streamline and 
accelerate the delivery of the projects 

3.Continuous Integration  - 
The practice of regularly integrating code changes into main branch ,automatically
testing each change and automatically kicking of a build 

4. Continuous Delivery - 
Continuous delivery works in conjunction with continuous integration to automate the infrastructure provisioning and application release process. They are commonly referred to together as CI/CD.